>> Jen Kramer: Here we have the same
drawing that you've been looking at now
for two days.
But we've changed it
just slightly this time.
So I have a wrapper going around
this particular bunch of cells that
are inside of this, and each cell notice,
has a different class this time.
So rather than calling out a single class
name and applying it to multiple cells,
every cell here has it's own unique class,
all right?
So this is very important because,
[COUGH] this is the way that we're
gonna wind up having to specify.
Because now we have to specify
our cells in two dimensions.
And if two cells have the same
two-dimensional layout, what are they?
On top of each other, make sense?
Okay, so previously, we could just have
one cell all next to each other, right?
And they'd lay out in a row but
now, because we have to specify both
the horizontal and the vertical.
If the two cells have the same dimensions
they are on top of each other for
better or for worse.
Okay, so just like flex backs
where we had parents and children,
we had flex containers and
we had flex items same kind of thing here.
We have grid containers and
grid items okay?
So the parent here's the wrapper,
the cells are the children.
So the wrapper is going to have
a very simple code to get it started.
So the wrapper with the display grid and
a grid gap of ten pixels.
If you're offended by pixels, I apologize.
[LAUGH] When I started making
these slides, five months ago or
six months ago, pixels were the only thing
supported by the browser for grid gap.
And like a few days ago I tried it with
Ms and it actually worked with Ms, so
that bug finally got fixed, okay?
So be aware that you don't have to use
pixels anymore for the grid gap, but
it was a thing for a little while.
You could only,
it would only work with pixels.
And of course,
what do you think the grid gap is?
>> Speaker 2: The space between.
>> Jen Kramer: The space between
the grid cells.
Space between the grid cells.
Okay, ohis is how we're going to start
to specify our grid cells on our page.
This is the first kind of syntax
we're gonna learn for this.
So we have our wrapper on the outside.
That's the pair where we declare that it's
a grid and we we can declare grid gap.
And there's some other properties
we're gonna add as the day goes on.
In order to specify ourselves,
what you're going to think about
is the series of numbers, okay?
And the numbers are sort of
four column system like this or
as I've specified them up here.
So just before the start of
the first cell is line one,
just after that first cell is line two,
make sense?
Okay and then we can then
specify exactly how we want our
grid cells to however we want them to be.
Just by doing a grid column here, right?
So we are going to go from one to two and
then the second one here,
we're going to go from two to three.
The third one,
we're going to go from three to four.
What would the call for class look like?
>> Speaker 2: Four
to five?
>> Jen Kramer: Four to five.
What if I wanted column 1 here to go and
occupy the first two cells?
What would its numbers be?
>> Speaker 2: One, two,
three.
>> Jen Kramer: One
>> Jen Kramer: I will
tell you that it is possible that if you
really want you can name these lines
instead of doing the number thing.
But personally,
being the minimalist that I am,
I don't see a whole lot of
point in naming my lines.
Like, writing the code to name the lines,
then doing the extra typing
to name those lines, but
it is a thing you can do [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: You mentioned that you could
also span it, so instead of saying one
to three, you could say, span one two?
>> Jen Kramer: Yes, you can also do that.
There is a span keyword
you can do as well, yes.
But again, that's four extra
characters you have to type [LAUGH].
So by doing the slash here,
that also works.
Okay, [COUGH] so what if we made a little
bit more complicated sort of layout
here.
>> Speaker 2: Not only the grid-column
are we gonna work with now, but
we're also gonna work with grid-row.
Make sense?
So the columns are going across the page
vertically, one column, two columns,
three columns, the rows are going
down the page horizontally.
And the number thing works exactly
the same way with the rows as it does with
the columns.
So here we go.
We can just go on ahead and
call out a series of grid columns and
grid row values, and that winds up
being the layout for the webpage.
So like I said, I'm gonna just sort of
mention alternative syntax at the moment.
We're gonna go through a little
bit of this later on today.
So the name of the grid template areas
is something we're gonna cover later on
today.
You can also call out some patterns.
So some number of rows an/or columns,
that way.
But we're gonna master this first kind
of syntax, calling out the grid row and
the grid column.
You're just using the numbers.
We're gonna focus on that for
a little while, get comfortable with that.
And then I'll go into some of this other
syntax that you might have heard of
later on in the day.
Okay, so reordering is super
easy with grid as well.
Let say that you have this type of layout.
You can put this in the exact
order that you want for
search engine optimization or
your mobile, the boxes on top of each
other exactly what order you
want it on your mobile screen.
Or the order that you want for
accessibility and hopefully all three of
those things are exactly the same, [LAUGH]
so that stuff gets served up correctly.
So your HTML source order can
be exactly what you want.
And then it's very easy to reorder and
I will go ahead and
show you that.
>> Speaker 2: [COUGH] So
I'm in if you're following along at home,
I'm in the day two grid folder,
chapter eight grid intro.
And I am opening up
reordering that HTML and
reordering.CSS.
>> Speaker 2: And
I'll show you what that code looks like.
So, here's the really cool thing here.
So we've got a super simple layout, right,
a header, some kind of article and
an aside.
As we start to shrink this page down,
we can completely reorder
everything on the page, totally radically
different than what we had before, okay?
And then of course,
come to a mobile layout like this,okay.
So that's pretty amazing, that is not
something that you would really be able
to do with floats at all, okay.
So the HTML for
that is really super simple.
We have just a header, we have
an article with some blah, blah and
we have our side, right?
And then in our reordering here,
all I've done is for
my wrapper I have my display of grid and
my grid gap ten pixels.
Okay.
The wrapper header article aside,
that's all got just some
colors associated with it.
And then down here in my media queries
I've simply calling out where these things
should appear on the web page
using grid column and grid row.